# Design Document
This file should discuss how you implemented your project and why you made the design decisions you did, both technical and ethical. Your design document as a whole should be at least several paragraphs in length. Whereas your README.md is meant to be a user’s manual, consider your DESIGN.md your opportunity to give the staff a tour of your project underneath its hood.

## Technical Decisions
### In this section, share and justify the technical decisions you made.
You don't need to respond to all questions, but you might find some of the following helpful:
* What design challenge(s) did you run into while completing your project? How did you choose to address them and why?

    The biggest design challenge was deciding how to calculate the grade. The issue is let's say we have a class that has 3 components to it: Tests are worth 60% of the grade, Quizzes are worth 20%, and Homework is worth 20%. How do we calculate the grade when there is nothing in the gradebook? Then, the question became if we only have one assignment in do we allow that one assignment's score to be the score for the entire course. How about when we have only two assignments from different categories, say one test and one quiz in the gradebook. I ultimately had to decide between two routes. One, I could simply assume 100% in all categories that do not have any assignments entered into them. Or two, I would calculate using only entered categories, so in the instance of one test and one quiz, the test would account for 6/8 of the overall grade and the quiz would account for 2/8. After much deliberation and mixed feedback from students I asked, I ultimately went with the first option, for the simple reason that in high school that was how our online grades portal would do it. You would start the class with 100% since nothing was in the gradebook and as you went on, it would assume 100% in all categories that had no assignments entered. I also felt that it was an easier calculation to explain to a user. The second one might be difficult for them to understand, whereas the first one is very simple and they can easily recognize how their grade is being calculated.

    Another design challenge was ensuring that my website would hold up against malicious behavior and ensure that users were properly using features and inputs. As such, I created checks for absolutely all user inputs and ensured they would abide by all the rules I had for form submissions. For any typed inputs, I made sure to use .strip() on, as that would prevent my program from running into issues with spaces at the end or thinking that they entered something when they really only entered a space. Any time they responded with a piece of info already in my database, I would verify that the info was found in the database before doing anything further with it. I also used abstraction to help out with input verification. I created a check_positive_integer function that would check if an input was a positive integer. I also created a check_class function that would check to see if a user's class input was found in the database before using their input any further. There are seriously so many checks in my website, more than I could delve into here, and I would be surprised if someone was able to find a way to bypass the rules or even perform a successful malicious action. A third use of abstraction came in recalculating the grade, which was a complex calculation that was needed multiple times in my program. I decided to create a recalculate function that would take a class id and the categories of that class in order to provide the grade for the class. These abstractions helped me deal with repetition in my code, but also really helped with me thinking about what I was doing, as I did not have to think about the complexity of the calculation after making the function.

* Was there a feature in your project you could have implemented in multiple ways? Which way did you choose, and why?

    Seeing this question now, I realize my above response actually responds to this. I ultimately decided to assume 100% in unentered categories simply because the feedback from students was mixed and I remembered my high school would calculate grades using that method.

* If you used a new technology, what did you learn about this new technology? Did this technology prove to be the right tool?

    Although I did not use a "new" technology, I think the process of using everything we learned all year (except of course C) was kind of new. Although finance had everything, it did not include JavaScript, or at least mine didn't. I think now that I was on my own, I really got introduced to the process of deciding what language to use to carry out each process. In finance, we knew we would be using python. But now that I was on my own, I had to ask myself, is this something I want to use JavaScript for or something I want the user to submit through the backend. I think ultimately I learned that anything involving database information or inputs that need verification is more simply executed in python, while making the page dynamic, like adding another category buttons, seems to be the strong suit of JavaScript.

## Ethical Decisions
### What motivated you to complete this project? What features did you want to create and why?

    Gradebook was actually not the project I first started out with. About a week after our proposals, there came a night I thought to myself, it sucks that I have no way of keeping track of my grades. I know what scores I am getting on Gradescope, but I really don't want to bust out a calculator for an hour every time I want to know my grade in a class. So I thought to myself, wait why not just create a gradebook like the one you had in high school. In high school, we had this software called Parent Portal that was used by both teachers and students and would calculate our grades for us throughout the year, and even create our transcripts. So I wanted to create A Parent Portal for college. I wanted to have a way to look at a transcript filled with my previous courses, as well as of course a way to see my current grades. I wanted a feature to add/remove classes, to add/remove assignments, to archive a class so that it goes to my past classes transcript, and a way to see my assignments. I essentially wanted to create a piece of software that would allow me to be lazy and simply enter in the score of my assignments in each class to keep a record of my grades.

### Who are the intended users of your project? What do they want, need, or value?
You should consider your project's users to be those who interact _directly_ with your project, as well as those who might interact with it _indirectly_, through others' use of your project.

    The intended direct users of my project are students, specifically college students since we don't seem to have a grades portal as we did in high school (and I have only had one class that actually uses Canvas for grades). The indirect users are likely teachers, as now if there is a mistake in the grade a student receives, they can take it up with their teachers. For instance, let's say the cutoff for an A or A- is 90%, and a student who calculates his grade to be 91% receives a B+. Well, that student can now show the teacher their grade through Gradebook, as well as all the assignments they entered, and have a way of effectively solving the situation. College students want a convenient way of knowing their grades and value not having to worry about knowing how they are performing in a course. Rather than having a feel for how a student is doing in a course, they can see the numbers for themselves using my website.

### How does your project's impact on users change as the project scales up?
You might choose one of the following questions to reflect on:
* How could one of your project's features be misused?

    Going back to the above mention of teachers as indirect users, a student could trick a trusting teacher into changing their grade with Gradebook. For instance, let's say a student has a borderline B+, but then goes to the teacher and says my Gradebook says that I have an A- in the course, not mentioning they had inputted a false assignment at the end giving them just enough extra credit to have the A-. Well, a very trusting teacher might immediately trust the student and change the grade. Or a less trusting teacher may say show the assignments you inputted. The student could then show that they did input every assignment correctly, and again continue to hide the extra credit at the end, perhaps by not scrolling down far enough for the teacher to see. The website could be misused as some teachers may assume it to be correct, even though a student may maliciously try to input higher grades than they truly received.

* Are there any types of users who might have difficulty using your project?

    The first thing that came to mind was students who have their classes curved at the end of the course. Although they may know their pure score, for some classes where the uncurved A is say a 40%, Gradebook would not be of much use to them. The only insight they would be given is their uncurved grade, which would likely be irrelevant in classes where the curve is extremely prominent. This may even cause excess anxiety and stress for the user, who may see their uncurved grade and grow overly concerned, not realizing the curve has yet to be accounted for.

* If your project becomes widely adopted, are there social concerns you might anticipate?

    I don't really think any social concerns came to mind. The only thing was maybe people would begin to compare grades, which could lead to some people feeling pressured to share their grades with others when they don't want to out of fear of looking bad. Or perhaps, those with higher grades would feel superior and those with lower grades upon comparison with friends may feel lesser. However, I do not think this would be a major social concern, as these peer performance comparisons have always been around and this would mainly just increase those comparisons in the college grade setting, where students haven't had previous access to a grades portal for the most part.
